Grant Hardaway
INF385T - Peer Production
      Peer Production Participation Project - Community Identification
    The peer production community that I will be using for the participation
project is rateyourmusic.com. Rate Your Music (RYM) is a collaborative database
that focuses on music and film. Through its dedicated user-base, the database
has cultivated a vast, detailed catalog of records on albums and movies. Along
with a massive catalog of descriptive entries, the database places emphasis on
user-generated reviews of individual albums or films. These reviews and
associated 5-star rankings contribute to a system that generates charts of the
“best” albums or films. For instance, the current album ranked number one of
all-time on RYM is Radiohead’s OK Computer which stands at an average rating of
4.23 stars based on 41,673 ratings ("Custom Chart," 2018).
    RYM contains many of the trademark features of a peer production community.
Most importantly, the website adheres to three essential elements of peer
production: the scale of the community involves more than one individual, the
website is open to contribution, and these contributions lead to the production
of content. Like many other peer production projects, the database is primarily
run by volunteers who are motivated simply by their passion for keeping all of
the content on the website up-to-date and accurate. The database employs a less
centralized benevolent dictator governance system with the main administrator at
the top of the hierarchy. The main administrator delegates moderation and
maintenance tasks to various lower positions. These positions include volunteer
administrators and database moderators that approve or deny all changes made on
the website.
    Much like Wikipedia, any individual that starts an account on RYM has the
freedom to edit or create entries in the database. For example, if The Rolling
Stones announces a new album today, I can go the RYM entry for The Rolling
Stones and add a new album to their discography. I would then be able to fill in
any additional information within the album record such as track titles, release
date, and album credits. Some elements of an entry, such as the band photo or
musical genre, are determined by consensus voting from the community. Members
are able to communicate with the larger community through RYM’s forum system.
Topics on the forums can range from technical aspects of the database to basic
music discussion.
    I plan on participating in the RYM community by creating and detailing new
records for Austin musicians and their albums. I work for UT’s student-run radio
station KVRX and they regularly receive music from little-known local acts
that, due to their obscurity, would not typically be entered into RYM. By
interacting with the major contribution features of RYM, I will be able to gain
a better understanding of how the website runs overall and how their
administrators respond to new entries and edits to the database.

                                References
Custom chart. (2018). Retrieved March 20, 2018, from
https://rateyourmusic.com/customchart
