Wxmp-web Development Community WeChat is a Chinese multi-purpose messaging and social media app developed by Tencent. It has been called China's "App For Everything" and a "Super App" because of its wide range of functions and platforms (“WeChat”, 2018). WeChat also has an official account function, including subscription account, service account, and enterprise account that users can subscript if they are interested. This is a great self-media platform on which everyone can publish their own articles after they apply and get their personal subscription account and they can, of course, read others’ articles by searching related keywords.The WeChat official account web management tools, wxmp-web, can be totally operated on a website by simply maven compiling. Users can edit their articles posted on WeChat official account very conveniently without taking care of the base interface of WeChat anymore. Wxmp-web offers nearly all services related to WeChat interface including text management, figure management, tab management, follower management, group messages, severs binding.Wxmp-web is a free and open source software project developed on gitee, which is a Chinese cloud software development collaboration platform. Besides, the developers also provide all the code in github. Wxmp-web development community is a typically peer production community. The production and cooperation ways meet the core characteristics of peer production: (a) decentralization of conception and execution of problems and solutions, (b) harnessing diversemotivations, and (c) separation of governance and management from property and contract (Yochai Benkler, “peer production and cooperation”). First of all, developers could also get involved in the project by joining their discussion group based on QQ, a social medical app. Developers could post suggestions and updates of code on the gitee. All the developers could choose the working part according to their skills and interests and could discuss the problem in the group with each other in the QQ group. This a kind of decentralization of conception and execution of problems and solutions. Besides, the developers of this project have different purposes and motivations. Some of them focus on developing this tool to improve the work efficiency because they need to manage some WeChat official accounts in their daily work.  A lot of them hope to develop programming skills and enrich their resumes by taking part in this project. And some developers just enjoy doing something good and cooperating with others online. It is obvious that the Wxmp-web development community harness diverse motivations. In addition, there is no clear authority and manager in the community and developers have a lot of freedom to contribute to the project. The beginners act more like coordinators instead of leaders to manage the daily operation without property and contract. This feature is the separation of governance and management from property and contract. The wxmp-web development community has 104 members and most of them is very passionately involved in the development. The developers usually discuss problems spontaneously every week and other people would provide guidance and help. Especially, for the new members, there are many guidance books and learning materials in the QQ group, which is very helpful to get knowledge of the project and begin to contribute. I hope to learn how to develop the software in the peer production way by getting involved in the wxmp-web development community.Reference:WeChat. (2018). Retrieved March 23, 2018, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WeChatY. Benkler, Peer Production and Cooperation, forthcoming in J. M. Bauer & M. Latzer (eds.),Handbook on the Economics of the Internet, Cheltenham and Northampton, Edward Elgar.