Concerning the vitality of many tempting maintenance projects on 
Wikipedia, I plodded across several projects repeatedly and finally 
moved to the Check Wikipedia WikiProject which seems fairly healthy. The 
goal of the project is to eliminate syntax errors of the wikitext, 
modify code that does not follow conventions, and improve accessibility 
of wiki pages and articles with invalid ISBNs, as described on its 
project page. As the important communication infrastructure of the 
project, the task, operation of the project, some basic guidelines and 
members of the community are elucidated on the project page. The page 
also offers the community a shared space for public discussion. But the 
working community is less organized via the project page but more by a set of 
algorithm tools, as detailed below.
According to my preliminary observation, a program Checkwiki is 
primarily used to monthly scan the Wikipedia database dump for over 30 
languages and daily scan the newly revised articles in Wikipedia in 
several languages, then generate a list of errors for participants of 
the project to manually correct them. Other widely used tools and 
scripts like WPCleaner, AutoWikiBrowser, autoFormatter, etc., with 
particular detailed aims to edit and improve the quality of wiki 
articles. These tools are usually semi-automated, say, detect certain 
problems with the existing pages, classify problems with their own 
algorithm, submit to users, and help wrap up the edits made by users so 
that the whole editing process is streamlined. A part of errors fixed 
via these tools belongs to the scope of the Check Wikipedia project. 
Furthermore, a few bots are being used to automatically fix certain 
errors. The visible result is, the list of errors showed on the project 
page contains problems that are detected by these maintenance tools and 
cannot be resolved by bots, thus need the involvement of human.
In this way, the community of Check Wikipedia project is not strictly 
equal to the 31 participants listed on the project page, but also 
include those who use the maintenance tools to help check errors without 
putting their name on the participant list. The community members are 
volunteers who proactively join the community or unintendedly enlisted 
by using maintenance tools. They work independently at distance and 
yield the improvement of article quality, which is shared by all the 
users of Wikipedia. Thus I would like to argue they collaborate in the 
manner of peer production, or say, open collaboration. But it differs 
from the collaboration through open superposition in several significant 
ways: the conceptualization, breakdown, and assignment of tasks are 
completed by editing tools and bots; the layering of the less autonomous 
tasks is not substantial enough to hold the visibility which facilitates 
productivity. Generally, the project works like an organization-absent 
Mechanical Turk, with only nonmonetary payoffs.
Intriguingly, there is some mild drama discernible on the discussion 
page of the project, which signals the sporadic issues with server, 
database, tools and bots stall the normal operation of the project. The 
multiplicity of technology being used means more dependencies between 
sequences of work. Thus I am leery of having high expectancy. My 
expectation about participation is maybe luckily I can work with a few 
tools and make limited contributions in the given time, but I am not 
sure about the smoothness and efficiency of the whole workflow.

