Community Identification
--Minglang Xie

The community I want to discuss about is called Baidu Encyclopedia (Baidupedia). Baidupedia is a typical and popular Chinese peer production project, and all the Baidupedia users are peer producers of Baidupedia project.

As I mentioned, Baidupedia is like a “Chinese Wikipedia”. According to Benkler, peer production combines three core characteristics: (a) decentralization of conception and execution of problems and solutions, (b) harnessing diverse motivations, and (c) separation of governance and management from property and contract. 

Baidupedia is an open source platform and community for all of the users to edit and make changes for a specific topic and key word. There is no central user or editor completely in the center of it. In traditional knowledge production, knowledge workers get certain forms of rewards, generally wages. However, participants usually participate in peer production voluntarily. Plus, where the copyright licenses used make ownership or contract irrelevant to the core organizational question of who does what, when, with what resources and which collaborators, and where task construction generally is collaborative, though in some cases may be merely coordinated/collated.

Peer production itself has, over the past decade, developed into two quite distinct flavors. Commons-based peer production (CBPP), the original model of FOSS and Wikipedia, includes all attributes Benkler ascribed to peer production. Baidupedia is just like this one (the other is Firm-hosted peer production, like Yelp).

Peer production more generally, in particular when it relies on commons—that is, on
symmetrical access privileges (with or without use rules) to the resource without transaction—allows (a) diverse people, irrespective of organizational affiliation or property/contract nexus to a given resource or project; (b) dynamically to assess and reassess the available resources, projects, and potential collaborators, and (c) to self-assign to projects and collaborations. This is from the definition of Benkler. I will analyze why I think Baidupedia is a great case of peer production. First, it lets diverse people to edit and take part in a given resource or project. By making changes, they all together are perfecting the information keyword. And this can be shared to everyone who have access to this website around the world. Second, the resources can definitely be assessed for Baidupedia. Thirdly, the self-assign mechanism is also applied to it for projects and collaborations.

Another thing I’d like to talk about is participating motivation. Participating motivations of Baidupedia kernal users and ordinary users differed from each other in the amount of kinds of noted motivations on the one hand, and significances of the same motivation among their inspective motivations on the other hand. Such difference may result in their different participating behavior in Baidupedia. As a whole, Baidupedia users’ participating motivations were diverse. According to the importance of these motivations, the Baidupedia users’ participating motivations are as follows: use-value motivation, need to know motivation, interest motivation, reciprocity motivation, intercourse motivation, competence motivation, money motivation and status motivation. The participating motivations of Baidupedia users can help to understand Chinese peer producers’ participating motivations to some extent.

Based on these, I think Baidupedia can be regarded as a pretty representation of peer production projects.
