Peer Production Participation Project

Peer Production Community Identification:
The community I have an interest in is about deep learning CNN. I take part in a community in Github: dog_breed_identification, which is a fun project to classify dog breeds using deep learning. By default this project uses the Stanford Dogs Dataset to classify dog breeds. This community is similar with kaggle, which is a competition for lots of open source projects (kaggle, 2018). In this community, people could learn relevant knowledge about deep learning, neural-network and classification. Github is a platform for people who are interested in to share their opinions and each of us could comment and if you have a bug or an idea, browse the open issues before opening a new one. If people know how to fix an issue, they could open a pull request for it. This community in Github seems like an online discussion group who all have interests in this project. This dog_breed_identification community includes several students who have same interests in CNN project. And now we are working on it. Some issues about deep learning or this project all could be posted on it and others could solve them.

How it works:
As a developer, I have already created a project about dog_breed_identification in Github and it is available for subscriber to get all content of this project. A simple readme shows people what community it is and how to start this project. The source code is also available on Github. Anyone can contribute on the project by pulling a request. Some relevant learning links on the Github offered for new to study knowledge about deep learning and join in the project quickly. This dog_breed_identification project is a very useful to understand CNN in deep learning. 

The reason why it is Peer Production:
Under the definition, peer production is a way of producing goods and services that relies on self-organizing communities of individuals and the labor of a large number of people is coordinated towards a shared outcome (Peer production, 2018). I think this dog_breed_identification community matches the definition. The shared outcome of it is a classifier with best performance of dog breeds. It matches the most obvious characteristic of peer production: open source. What’s more, dog-breed identifier community fits well with two core characteristics of peer production mentioned by Benkler ( Benkler, 2016). The first one is decentralized conception and execution: Everyone could do this project and give suggestions about it. In our project, someone has done it using vgg16 and keras package and what I want to do is to improve it in performance. The second one is diverse motivations, including non-monetary motivations: some people do it for interests and ideology, someone takes part in it maybe for their own homework of deep learning class and some of them for kaggle competition to win a bonus (Nov, 2007).

My expectation about participation in community:
I decided to contribute to present a different training method and use vgg19 in my project. It has already a project about dog-breed classifier using vgg16 and keras package. But in our project, we need to know TensorFlow and vgg19. TensorFlow is an open source software library that uses data flow graphs for numerical calculations. And vgg19 is a deep framework, which is deeper than vgg16 and although much more data need to be converged, accuracy improves a lot. 
  

Reference:
1.	(n.d.). Retrieved March 25, 2018, from https://www.kaggle.com/c/dog-breed-identification
2.	Peer production. (2018, February 28). Retrieved March 24, 2018, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer_production
3.	Benkler, Y. (2016). Peer production and cooperation. Handbook on the Economics of the Internet,91-119.
4.	Nov, O. (2007). What motivates Wikipedians? Communications of the ACM,50(11), 60-64. doi:10.1145/1297797.1297798

